Add UpdateHub.io support lib (#13039)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/updatehub/README.rst

    :build-dir: fdrm_k64f_build
    :goals: build

.. _updatehub_sample_sign:

Step 5: Sign the first image
============================

From this section onwards you use a binary (``.bin``) image format.

Using MCUboot's :file:`imgtool.py` script, sign the :file:`zephyr.bin`
file you built in Step 3. In the below example, the MCUboot repo is located at
:file:`~/src/mcuboot`.

.. code-block:: console

   ~/src/mcuboot/scripts/imgtool.py sign \
        --key ~/src/mcuboot/root-rsa-2048.pem \
        --header-size 0x200 \
        --align 8 \
        --version 1.0.0 \
        --slot-size <image-slot-size> \
        <path-to-zephyr.bin> signed.bin

The command above creates an image file called :file:`signed.(bin|hex)` in the
current directory.

Step 6: Flash the first image
=============================

Upload the :file:`signed.bin` file from Step 4 to image slot-0 of your
board.  The location of image slot-0 varies by board, as described in
:ref:`mcuboot_partitions`.  For the fdrm_k64f, slot-0 is located at address
``0xc000``.

Using :file:`pyocd` you don't need to specify the slot-0 starting address.

.. code-block:: console

    sudo pyocd-flashtool <path-to-signed.bin>

> Step 8: Signing the test image

Reviewer: Docs seem to be missing Step 7?

UpdateHub sample
################

Overview
********

> UpdateHub is an enterprise-grade solution which makes simple to remotely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UpdateHub is an enterprise-grade solution which makes it simple to remotely
```

update all your Linux-based devices in the field. It handles all aspects
related to sending Firmware Over-the-Air (FOTA) updates with maximum

> security and efficiency, while you focus in adding value to your product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
security and efficiency, while you focus on adding value to your product.
```

> These are samples on how to implement simple, polling or manual, local update

Reviewer 2: Delete this sentence (it's already said on the next line).

UpdateHub sample
################

Overview
********

These are samples on how to implement simple, polling or manual, local update
using UpdateHub. UpdateHub is an enterprise-grade solution which makes simple
to remotely update all your Linux-based devices in the field. It handles all
aspects related to sending Firmware Over-the-Air (FOTA) updates with maximum
security and efficiency, while you focus in adding value to your product.

In this document you will find two modes of UpdateHub operation: polling and
manual

Polling mode runs automatically on a predefined period, probing the server
for updates and installing them without requiring user intervention. You
can access the sample source code for this mode `updatehub_polling`_.

> .. _updatehub_polling: updatehub_polling

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing you'll provide a real external link to where this update polling content is?  As written this won't work.

Manual mode requires the user to call the server probe and then, if there is
an available update, also requires the user to decide if it is apropriate to
update now or later. You can access the sample source code for this mode
`updatehub_manual`_.

> .. _updatehub_manual: updatehub_manual

Reviewer 2: Same here.  This needs a link to the manual, something like:
```
.. _updatehub_manual: https://somewebsite.com/manualdoc.html
```

  without modification.

* The MCUboot bootloader is required for ``UpdateHub`` to function
  properly. More information about the Device Firmware Upgrade subsystem and
  MCUboot can be found in :ref:`mcuboot`.

Building and Running
********************

The below steps describe how to build and run the ``UpdateHub`` sample in
Zephyr. Where examples are given, it is assumed the sample is being built for
the Freedom-K64F Development Kit (``BOARD=fdrm_k64f``).

Step 1: Build MCUboot
=====================

Build MCUboot by following the instructions in the :ref:`mcuboot` documentation
page.

Step 2: Flash MCUboot
=====================

Flash the resulting image file to the 0x0 address of the flash memory. This can
be done in multiple ways, but the most common ones would be using make or ninja:

.. code-block:: console

   make flash
   # or
   ninja flash

Step 3: Build UpdateHub
==============================

``UpdateHub`` can be built for the fdrm_k64f as follows:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
    :zephyr-app: samples/updatehub/updatehub_<manual-or-polling>
    :board: fdrm_k64f
    :build-dir: fdrm_k64f_build
    :goals: build

> .. updatehub_sample_sign:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _updatehub_sample_sign:
```

From this section onwards you can use either a binary (``.bin``) or an Intel
Hex (``.hex``) image format. This is written as ``(bin|hex)`` in this
document, so edit the commands accordingly before running them.

Using MCUboot's :file:`imgtool.py` script, sign the :file:`zephyr.(bin|hex)`
file you built in Step 3. In the below example, the MCUboot repo is located at
:file:`~/src/mcuboot`.

.. code-block:: console

   ~/src/mcuboot/scripts/imgtool.py sign \
        --key ~/src/mcuboot/root-rsa-2048.pem \
        --header-size 0x200 \
        --align 8 \
        --version 1.0.0 \
        --slot-size <image-slot-size> \
        <path-to-zephyr.(bin|hex)> signed.(bin|hex)

The command above creates an image file called :file:`signed.(bin|hex)` in the
current directory.

Step 5: Flash the first image
=============================

Upload the :file:`signed.(bin|hex)` file from Step 4 to image slot-0 of your
board.  The location of image slot-0 varies by board, as described in
:ref:`mcuboot_partitions`.  For the fdrm_k64f, slot-0 is located at address
``0xc000``.

Using :file:`pyocd` you don't need to specify the slot-0 starting address.

.. code-block:: console

>     sudo pyocd-flashtool <path-to-signed.bin>

Reviewer 2: ``(bin|hex)`` to be consistent?

Step 6: Signing the test image
================================

> For the update to be correctly validated on the server you will need sign the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the update to be correctly validated on the server, you must sign the
```

(``bin|hex``) image, piping the output to another file.

.. code-block:: console

   ~/src/mcuboot/scripts/imgtool.py sign \
        --key ~/src/mcuboot/root-rsa-2048.pem \
        --header-size 0x200 \
        --align 8 \
        --version 2.0.0 \
        --slot-size <image-slot-size> \
        <path-to-zephyr.(bin|hex)> signed_v2.(bin|hex)

Step 7: Create a package with UpdateHub Utilities (``uhu``)

> =======================================================

Reviewer 2: The title underline must be at least as long as the title above it, so add a few more ``===``'s

> First you need install UpdateHub Utilities (``uhu``) at your system, using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, install UpdateHub Utilities (``uhu``) on your system, using:
```

.. code-block:: console

>     pip3 install uhu

Reviewer 2: will this need ``sudo`` to install, or should you use ``--user``?

After installing uhu you will need to set the ``product-uid``:

.. code-block:: console

    uhu product use "e4d37cfe6ec48a2d069cc0bbb8b078677e9a0d8df3a027c4d8ea131130c4265f"

> Also add the package and it's mode (``zephyr``):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, add the package and its mode (``zephyr``):
```

.. code-block:: console

    uhu package add signed_v2.(bin|hex) -m zephyr

Then inform what ``version`` this image is:

.. code-block:: console

   uhu package version 2.0.0.0

And finally you can build the package by running:

.. code-block:: console

    uhu package archive --output <name-of-package>.pkg

Step 8: Start the updatehub-ce-server
=====================================

> For default the updatehub application is set to start on the official server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the updatehub application is set to start on the official server.
```

> For more details on how to use the official server please reffer to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details on how to use the official server please refer to the
```

> documentation on the `updatehub.io`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
documentation on `updatehub.io`_.
```

.. _updatehub.io: https://updatehub.io

> However if you would like to use your own server. The steps bellow explain how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you would like to use your own server, the steps below explain how
```

> updatehub works with updatehub-ce-server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
updatehub works with updatehub-ce-server
```

> Starting updatehub-ce-server you can just running the following Docker command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
running, started by the following Docker command:
```

.. code-block:: console

    docker run -d -p 8080:8080 -p 5683:5683/udp --rm  updatehub/updatehub-ce-server:latest

> Using this server you can set the variable ``CONFIG_UPDATEHUB_PROBE_SERVER``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using this server you can set the option :option:`CONFIG_UPDATEHUB_PROBE_SERVER`
```

on the ``prj.conf`` file with your local ip address or you can use the ip address

> directly on the shell command line, these steps bellow explain using the shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
directly on the shell command line.  The steps below explain using the shell
```

command line.

> Step 9: Add the package the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 9: Add the package to the server
```

> ==================================

Reviewer 2: and adjust the title underline

> Now you need add the package at updatehub-ce-server, for this you will need to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, add the package to the updatehub-ce-server by
```

> open your browser to the server URL, ``<your-ip-addres>:8080``, and then log

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
opening your browser to the server URL, ``<your-ip-addres>:8080``, and logging
```

> into the server using ``admin`` as the login and password by default.  After

Reviewer 2: is the password "password"?

> log-in you must click on the package menu and then ``UPLOAD PACKAGE``, and select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
logging in, click on the package menu, then ``UPLOAD PACKAGE``, and select
```

> the package built on the step 7.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the package built in step 7.
```

> Step 10: Registry device on server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 10: Register device on server
```

==================================

> For registry your device at updatehub_ce_server you need open your terminal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Register your device at updatehub_ce_server by using a terminal
```

> where you use for debbuging the board, and type the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
session on the system where you were debugging the board, and type the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

    updatehub run <your-local-ip>

> If everything is alright will print on the screen ``No update available``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If everything is alright, it will print on the screen ``No update available``.
```

Step 11: Create a rollout
=========================

> You need go where the updatehub_ce_server is open on the browser and click on

Reviewer 2: Change to:
```
In the browser where the updatehub_ce_server is open, click on
``menu Rollout`` and then ``CREATE ROLLOUT``. Select the version of the package
that you added in step 9.  With that, the update is published, and the server
is ready to accept update requests.
```

menu Rollout and after ``CREATE ROLLOUT``, and select the version of the package
that you add on the step 9. After that the update is published, and the server
is ready to accept update requests.

Step 12: Run the update
=======================

> Open your terminal that you use for debbuging the board, and type the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Back in the terminal session that you used for debugging the board, type the following
```

command:

.. code-block:: console

    updatehub run <your-local-ip>

> And then wait. The board will ping the server, check if there's any new updates,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And then wait. The board will ping the server, check if there are any new updates,
```

and then download the update package you've just created. If everything goes

> fine the message `Image flashed successfully, you can reboot now` will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fine the message ``Image flashed successfully, you can reboot now`` will be
```

printed on the terminal.

Step 13: Reboot the system
==========================

> Open your terminal where you use for debbuging the board, and type the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the terminal you used for debugging the board, type the following
```

command:

.. code-block:: console

    kernel reboot cold

Your board will reboot and then start with the new image. After rebooting the

> board will automatically ping the server again and the message `No update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
board will automatically ping the server again and the message ``No update
```

> available` will be printed on the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
available`` will be printed on the terminal.
```
